Hello everyone, today
we're going to tell you the story of
Prince Siddhartha saving a little swan.
Did you know that
Prince Siddhartha was later the Buddha Shakyamuni? As a child, he was
not only
intelligent and studious but also loved all
animals and nature.
One day, while sitting in the
garden, he saw a flock of white
swans flying in the
sky. Suddenly, an arrow shot through the air, hitting
one of the
smaller swans. The swan stumbled and fell to the ground, its
feathers stained red with the wound.
Seeing this, the prince rushed to
embrace the swan, stroking it to
comfort it. With his other hand, he carefully pulled out the arrow,
cleaned its wound, and wrapped
his outer garment around it to keep it
warm. A little while later, his
cousin, Mrs. Siddhartha, rushed
over. He was carrying a bow and arrows and
excitedly said, "I've been busy all this time! I
just shot a swan! I only
needed one shot!"  "I've shot the
bird! It's falling all around here, my
brother. Help me find it!"
A moment later, to make sure he was sure, he discovered
his arrow stained with blood on the
ground. Looking closely at the prince's hand, he saw that the princess
was holding the swan he was
looking for. The princess exclaimed, "This is
your swan! I shot it! My brother,
give it back to me!" Prince
Siddhartha said, "
If it were dead, I could give it to you,
but it's still alive, I must keep it to
tend to the wound, right?" The princess retorted angrily, "A
swan
flying in the sky is ownerless. Once I've shot
it, whether it's alive or dead, it belongs to me! Give it
back to me!" Prince Siddhartha
pressed the swan's neck to
his cheek and said, "No,
not only this poor injured swan,
but all defenseless creatures, I
have a responsibility to
protect, nurture, and support them.
I wish that my love should be
shared with all living beings." Prince
Siddhartha embraced the swan
affectionately and said, "If not..."  To
resolve this matter, bring it before the
clan council, remember the elders' judgment.
So the story was brought before the court, where the
council of
elders deliberated, and many arguments were presented.
They saw that the matter was between Prince Siddhartha and others, to
ensure everyone had a valid point, and to ensure everyone was right and wrong,
while everyone was hesitating and in a difficult position,
a powerful voice suddenly
rang out from behind: "From ancient times to the present, all things in the
world are not
outside of life. If in this country
life still has some value, then those who
protect life have the right to keep the bird
more than those who destroy life. In Hue,
under life, cruelty and brutality are
synonymous with destruction, while those who protect
life are gentle and kind, synonymous
with goodness and construction. One side is
kindness and
light, the other is cruelty and darkness.
Who is right and who is wrong? No need for a hand anymore. Give
this bird to the benevolent prince." The
court officials and the council of elders breathed a sigh of relief, feeling
greatly grateful. Looking around,
they saw the intelligence and brilliance
of the prince, a truly great figure.  The god said he
saw a
strange monk come and say what needed to be said,
then leave very quickly as if by magic. The
prince was overjoyed and brought the swan back,
caring for it with all his heart. Not
long after, the swan's wounds healed completely.
One day, the prince took the swan to the Royal Garden,
caressed it affectionately, and looked up at
the swans in the sky, saying, "
If there is a reunion, there will also be a separation."
Days passed, and the swan was strong enough to return
to its flock and family, separated for so long.
So the
prince released the swan into the air. The swan blinked its eyes, circled three times, and then flapped its wings and flew with the flock to a distant horizon. Our story ends here. [Applause] Goodbye, children. Just now you
heard the story of Prince Siddhartha the
Third, that is, our Buddha,
saving a little swan, right?
So we see that Prince
Siddhartha was a good person, didn't we?
And Prince Siddhartha loved the
swan, didn't he? Prince
Siddhartha even said that he loved it.  We should use
our love for all living beings,
right, children?
Now, in this retreat, who
will you share your love with?
Everyone? And importantly, who
are in the
same retreat? (A round of applause!) That's right!
In this retreat, you will
help your friends, and many of
you will help whoever you meet, right,
children?
Rahula went to the monastery at the age of 7.
What did he do independently?
[Applause]
[Music]
Rahula was independent,
self-reliant, truly self-sufficient. That's right, he
went begging for alms every day with the monastic community. Is
n't that amazing? So,
every day, Rahula
had to go to sleep by himself, wake up by himself, follow the monastic community,
go begging for alms in very far-off villages, then
come back, eat by himself,
bathe by himself, wash the dishes after eating,
and follow the daily practice schedule.
Rahula was only a few years old! Is
n't that amazing? So,
Rahula did all those things,
can you do them?
Very good! So, we have to go to sleep by ourselves.
This isn't talking, this is
eating by yourself, then taking a bath, then sitting down to
listen again, then playing – that's being independent, do you agree, children?
Teacher wishes you all to
be good and independent so that when you go home later, you can
help others.
Children, I say, we help our parents. Very good, that's right. Being independent means you
help your parents, so they don't have to
serve you. Then you help your
parents, right?
Very good, children. Now,
goodbye and I wish you success!
[Applause]
[Music]